# Simulate-and-Recover
## Josh Schulz
### In this assignment, I used the EZ diffusion model to simulate data and recover parameters. The EZ diffusion model is used to compute an estimation of parameters based on the observed statistics. The objective of this code is to determine if the model’s recovery can estimate the true parameters from simulated data. 
### The parameters for the simulated data are boundary separation (a), drift rate (v), and non decision time (t). The ranges I used were 0.5-2 for boundary separation and drift rate whereas for non decision time I used the range of 0.1-0.5. The data was simulated using sample sizes of N=10, N=40, and N=4000 with 1000 iterations for each. The forward equations of the EZ diffusion model were used to generate observed data (T_obs, M_obs, and V_obs) which are saved in a csv file under results called output.csv. After generation of simulated data, the inverse EZ diffusion equation recovers parameters. A new csv file (recovered.csv) is created when recover-EZDiffusion.py is executed, containing the estimated parameters. The estimated parameters are labeled as v_est for drift rate, a_est for boundary separation, and t_est for non decision time. 
### After the simulate-EZDiffusion.py and recover-EZDiffusion.py are executed two csv files are created which are merged to determine model accuracy. Bias and squared error for each value of N is calculated using a script that I wrote. I included this code in src/Calculate-BiasSquaredError and when executed, it merges the data from both csv files to calculate how well the model performed. For each population size my bias for boundary separation was the largest and was positive indicating an overestimation. Even though this was the largest value it was still usually under 0.1 which is close to 0. My bias of boundary separation for N=4000 performed the worst with a value close to 0.2. Drift rate and non decision time were both negative which indicates an underestimation. Non decision time was the most accurate for each population size as it was usually the closest to 0, being around 0.01. Based on the calculations for squared error my model seemed to perform well because as N increases the values were decreased. For example, for boundary separation, N=10 gave a squared error value of 0.437, then N=40 gave a value of 0.432, and finally N=1000 gave a value of 0.39. Both bias and squared error gave similar results when I executed the model multiple times which means the results are consistent. 
### In conclusion, the results from the model show that the model ran well for each population size. Bias was close to 0 for each parameter in every population size which means the model's estimates were generally accurate, displaying low error. Squared error decreased for each parameter as population size increased which means that with greater population size, the model can estimate parameters more accurately to true values, demonstrating improved accuracy with larger data sets. 


